


























Could you adopt this page by donating your time to maintain it?    Details at: 









Adoption Page

































































Y-DNA Haplogroup A and its Subclades - 2018

































































                Downloading this spreadsheet as Excel retains format.  Links may not copy to new sheet.








































The entire work is identified by the Version Number and date given on






Main Page.

















Directions for citing the document are listed on




Main Page.






















Version History

Last revision date for this specific page: 6 July 2018











































Because of continuing research, structure of the Y-DNA Haplogroup Tree changes,  ISOGG does its best to update it.














If differences need clarification or if you find  broken links on this page, e-mail:
Ray Banks







































LINKS:

Main Page.


Listing Criteria


Papers/Presentations Cited

Y-DNA Tree Trunk




















Glossary

SNP Index



Copyright 2018, International Society of Genetic Genealogy.

























All Rights Reserved.











FONT COLORS:


Newly confirmed in 2018 within subclade




Confirmed within subclade


Investigational items






































SYMBOLS:


^ Indicates a next-generation sequencing entry which does not yet meet quality guidelines for minimum number of reads.
























^^ Indicates an entry which does not meet quality guidelines but may be helpful.
























~ Indicates only an approximate location on the tree.















































The criteria for a representative SNP printed in bold for a subclade is:  traditional usage, testing done in multiple labs, and/or being found in the area of the chromosome used in recent research studies.














SNPs listed below in italics (colored black or red) are quality variants from next-generation sequencing reports consistently showing as representing that subgroup.














DID YOU NOTICE that the items in gray sometimes have a long name preceding their listing that is the same as just above?  In this situation, evidence seems to indicate they also seem to belong to the same subgroup, but some confirmatory evidence is not yet available.








































Contact Person, Haplogroup A:




Bonnie Schrack

 


































































